We are happy to welcome you to JW Broadcasting for June 2024.
On March 9, 2024, students from around the world were delighted to graduate from the
155th class of Gilead.
The students came from five continents, represented more than 20 countries and spoke over 35 languages.
What parting encouragement did members of the governing body, the Gilead instructors
and others give to the graduates?
What intriguing talk themes were developed?
Which countries were featured in the latest edition of the Inside Story?
Let's find out.
Enjoy Part 1.
Well you seem excited and you should be, and we're happy for you.
The graduation program today will benefit every listener, but even so, please know that
this program has been prepared with your class in mind.
And the day is over, you'll look back and recall a program that honored Jehovah and that
confirmed his love for you, as well as our love for you.
During the past five months of your schooling, you were asked to draw out important Bible
principles from many different accounts, true?
And so many of those accounts focused on servants of God who, with his help, will they
succeed in doing his will?
And you know, Dad, agree more than ever before with what the Apostle Paul wrote at Philippians
413, where he said, for all things, I have this strength through the one who gives me power.
And you know who that one is, Jehovah.
And he provides that power for us by means of his son, and he gave you the power to succeed
in this school, and you did.
And that's a blessing you must never forget.
He helped you, and he will always help you.
For example, in the future, when you face a task or challenge that seems very large, very
daunting, you can remember how he helped you at this time.
Keep in mind scriptural examples like David.
From his youth, David remembered his need for Jehovah's help, didn't he?
At Psalm 71, verses 5 and 17, he said, for your my hope, O sovereign Lord Jehovah, I have
trusted in you since my youth.
You've taught me from my youth, and until now I keep declaring your wonderful works.
Well, isn't that how you feel as Jehovah has helped you along through the years?
And now as he has helped you, you through this schooling, and you're at the point of graduation.
And what a thrilling day it is for you, one that you will never forget.
So like David, he had the gratitude to remember Jehovah's help.
So do we.
David had the faith to trust in Jehovah's help, and so do we, and we see those good qualities
in you, and we love you for it.
That's why you're confident to face whatever things are ahead of you as well.
So use your Gilead training in the branches where you will serve.
Jehovah will love you for it, and the dear brothers and sisters will absolutely love
you for it.
So now we're going to enjoy a series of encouraging talks that for all of us, as mentioned earlier,
will strengthen our faith, build up our trusting God, and highlight the wonderful purpose, his
wonderful purpose that we support.
So first of all, on the program, let's give our attention to brother Jonathan Smith.
He serves as a helper to the service committee who will discuss the theme, what do I need
to do?
What do I need to do?
Have you ever asked yourself that question?
Well, if you're like me, you ask yourself that question every day, sometimes several times
a day.
What do I need to do next?
But there's a little bit more to that question, and maybe you haven't asked yourself this
in a while.
What do I need to do to inherit everlasting life?
And maybe that's a question you asked when you were first studying the Bible, and rightly
so, or maybe during your course of your Gilead training, you asked yourself that question
a number of times.
Well in the Bible, there were two men who asked Jesus that same exact question.
Both of them asked Jesus the question in the last six months of Jesus' earthly ministry.
So it was the same question, the answers were different.
Let's look at the first one, Luke 10 and verse 25.
Now look, a man, verse in the law, stood up to test him and said, teacher, what do I need
to do to inherit everlasting life?
Well Jesus very astutely understands that this man is already versed in the law.
He probably already has an idea, but it seems his motive may be more to test Jesus than
get an answer.
So what does Jesus do?
Jesus lets him answer his own question in verse 26.
What is written in the law?
How do you read?
In verse 27, the man gives an amazing answer.
From one sentence, this man sums up the entire mosaic law.
He does it exactly the same way that Jesus had done so on two different occasions.
Well, Jesus, no doubt impressed.
He said to him in verse 28, you answered correctly, keep doing that.
You'll get life.
Good lessons here for us.
When we're talking with people about the Bible and our ministry, sometimes we may detect
they have a little knowledge, flip the question back to them.
What do you think?
Or better yet, what do you read?
Another thing we can do is found in verse 28, commend a person if they give a correct
response.
Let them know that you think everlasting life is within their reach.
But this man has another motive surface now.
He moves from testing Jesus to wanting to prove himself righteous.
In verse 29, he says, who really is my neighbor?
Now being Jewish and versed in the law, he's already got an idea on this one, too, doesn't
he?
He's probably thinking, Jesus is going to tell me what I want to hear.
That neighbors are my Jewish friends, perhaps in my village, especially those who follow
the law.
Well, if so, that question would be a little limiting, wouldn't it?
Who really is my neighbor?
Isn't really the best question.
So how does Jesus get around this motive that he's got of proving himself righteous and
yet correct his viewpoint on a neighbor?
Well, as you know, there's a beautiful parable here, the neighbor, Lee Samaritan, where
Jesus describes a situation here in verse 30, 31, 32, man is going down from Jerusalem
to Jericho, falls victim to robbers, they strip him, beat him, leave him half dead.
But by coincidence, a priest goes down that road, but passes by on the opposite side.
The same thing happens with a Levite, passes by on the opposite side.
These are men who have responsible positions in God's organization.
How callous, how insensitive.
Good lesson here for us.
We may have responsible assignments and Jehovah's organization.
Never allow that to cause us to become callous to another person's needs, even putting
our downtime, so to speak, ahead of caring for someone.
Well, you'll notice the Samaritan is very different, 33, 34.
He's traveling this road, he's moved with pity, he approaches him, bandages the wounds,
pours oil and wine on them, mounts the poor man on his own animal, brings him to an
inn, takes care of him, evidently all that day.
The next day, verse 35, he takes out two denariah, two days wages, gives them to the innkeeper,
says, take care of him, whatever you spend besides this, I will repay you when I return.
Two days wages evidently, he spent everything that he had, because he was going to have
to come back to give the innkeeper more.
Well, for a man who was a Jew, who would likely under normal circumstances, not even greet
him.
Well, Jesus then asked another question, but this time Jesus changes the man's question.
Not who is my neighbor, but who of these three seems to you to have made himself neighbor
to the man who fell victim to the robbers?
Isn't that a better question?
It isn't who is my neighbor.
How can I make myself a neighbor?
Well the man gets the point, and he answers correctly again.
He doesn't say Samaritan, maybe he can't go that far, but he says the one who acted mercifully.
Now Jesus says, go and do the same yourself, and the account ends there on a positive note.
Well, we learned a lot of, don't we, about talking with people in our ministry, and even
in our day-to-day conversations at work with our brothers and sisters, when others have
a question, never belittle the question, right?
Only help them to come to the right conclusion.
We never want to criticize someone for a motive that may not be the best, just kindly respond.
Maybe a parable, an illustration, will help them get the point.
Well, now, this isn't the only time Jesus had to deal with that question, as I mentioned,
let's go to another occasion, and this time we're going to go to Luke 18 and verse 18.
And here, we find that this man is not well-versed in the law, but he's a ruler, and the Bible says
that he's very rich, and in another gospel, it also says he's young, rich, and young,
and a ruler.
Not always the best combination, but notice here in verse 18, this conversation starts
with him running up to Jesus, unbended knee, good teacher, what must I do to inherit
every lasting life?
Well, Jesus can't let this one go.
You don't want to call Jesus something that should be only true of Jehovah.
That is a title of being a good teacher.
So he gives him a gentle correction there in verse 19, and then in verse 20, Jesus describes
of course, explains some of the ten commandments.
But the man in verse 21 says, all these have capped from my youth on.
In other words, what else am I lacking?
Well after hearing this, Jesus acknowledges there actually is something lacking.
And verse 22, one thing, sell all the things you have, distribute the proceeds to the poor.
You will have treasure in the heavens and come be my follower.
Well, that's almost too much for him to take.
And Mark's account, it tells us at this point that Jesus felt love for the man because
he clearly saw that he was sincere.
But although he was sincere in his question, he couldn't do it, could he?
When he heard this, he became deeply grieved for he was very rich.
Mark says he had many possessions.
Well we learn a few things from this parable, don't we?
We learn that sometimes people that have good motives don't always have good qualities.
In this case, he was simply too attached to his things and that prevented him from gaining
one of the best privileges he could have possibly had in following Jesus.
So from these two accounts, we learned some things.
First of all, we learned that we can learn from a Samaritan.
Have you ever learned from a Samaritan?
I know I have.
One day many years ago I was driving down the road and I had a flat tire and I had a spare
tire but the tools I didn't have.
So this is before the days of cell phones, I walked up to the nearest house, I said, can
I use your phone, please, to call a tow truck and the man said, well why, I need to change
my tire.
He says, I'll help you.
He comes out of his house, gets his tools and in no time changes my tire.
As he's doing so, I'm thinking to myself, he's of another religion, he's of another culture,
another racial background, he's changing my tire.
As I'm driving away, I'm thinking, Jehovah taught me something today from a Samaritan.
So what do we learn?
It's not such a bad idea, occasionally, to ask this question, is it?
Two men were wise to do so, unfortunately at least one of them didn't follow through.
But occasionally, if we say to Jehovah, please, what do I need to do to inherit everlasting
life?
We can be sure that Jehovah will answer that prayer, maybe through personal study or
Bible reading, or it might even be through Samaritan.
Well, we thank you very much, Brother Smith, for that warm and practical talk.
Let's now give our attention to Brother Paul Gillies, who serves as a helper to the coordinators
committee, who will discuss the theme, the gift of God.
Jehovah is the most generous person in the universe.
He is the giver of every good and every perfect present.
And no doubt, you Gillied students have thanked Jehovah many times for the numerous spiritual
gifts that you have received over the past five months.
I recall what one of you said in your introduction, Gillied is an undeserved gift.
What I would like to ask you now is, have you experienced over these five months the gift
of God that's mentioned in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verses 12 and 13?
Let's have a look at these verses together.
Ecclesiastes 3, 12 and 13.
I have concluded that there is nothing better for them than to rejoice and to do good during
their life.
Also that everyone should eat and drink and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.
So this verse offers a very simple formula for enjoying life, if we are blessed with good
health.
There is nothing better than to eat and drink and find enjoyment for hard work.
Why is that?
Because it is the gift of God.
Now as explained in verse 12, the work which produces feelings of enjoyment and satisfaction
is, you know, to do good.
That is, good deeds on behalf of others.
As Jesus said, there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
Verse 8, verse 30, also tells us that as a master worker, Jesus rejoiced.
Or as the Hebrew word for rejoice implies, he had a good time.
Yes, he had a good time working with his father over billions of years, creating the universe.
Now we may be a long way from being blessed as a master worker.
But all can enjoy the satisfaction that comes from doing good work in Jehovah's service.
And don't you find that it is this feeling itself that is a gift from God.
Now if you turn with me to Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verses 18 and 19 expands on this thought.
This is what I have seen to be good and proper, that one should eat and drink and find enjoyment
for all the hard work at which he toils under the sun during the few days of life that the
true God has given him, for that is his reward.
Also, when the true God gives a man riches and material possessions along with the ability
to enjoy them, he should take his reward and rejoice in his hard work, this is the gift of God.
Now in effect, the Bible writer wisely recommends two things here.
One, work diligently from day to day and two, enjoy what you have right now.
Now when we recognize that our prosperity is a gift from God, we get a lot of personal
enjoyment from what we possess. And you notice that twice in these verses, this gift of God is
described as a reward from Jehovah to us. Is that a beautiful thought that Jehovah chooses to
reward us for our hard work? And I'm sure you agree that Gilead has added an abundance of
spiritual treasures to your possessions. In the coming years, you will find enjoyment again and
again when you recall an explanation of a verse that you discovered during your personal study,
or that you gleaned from one of your instructors during a class lesson.
Like travelers abroad, you have collected priceless souvenirs.
Now if you're still in Ecclesiastes 5, let's have a look at verse 20, because this verse explains
how the gift of God can affect our outlook on life. It says, for he will hardly notice, or as the
footnote says, remember, he will hardly notice the passing days of his life, because the true God
keeps him preoccupied with the rejoicing of his heart. Time flies is a very common refrain here
at Bethel. And isn't that so true when we enjoy our work? We hardly notice that our days, weeks,
years, even life itself seems to fly by. Therefore the advice is, save the moment. As one famous quote
says, yesterday's the past, tomorrow's the future, but today is a gift, and that is why they call
it the present. And there are benefits to being busy. The gift of God can help us to protect our
mental well-being. When we are preoccupied with interesting work, we don't become unjuly concerned
with the brevity of life and its problems and uncertainties. Rather, we get so much enjoyment from
doing good, like Jesus having a good time, that the negative aspects of life tend not to dominate
our thinking. You see, we become joyful at heart. So enjoy that feeling. It is a gift from God.
Now, the past 20 weeks of schooling was hard work, wasn't it? Your minds were stretched,
yet hasn't time flown by since you introduced yourselves to us on November the 6th last year.
Well, now it's time to relax, to eat and drink, in moderation, of course, with your family and
friends as you reflect on your gillied experience. So now's the time to savor the reward from Jehovah.
The same wise writer also suggested a good balance between work and rest,
when he wrote at Ecclesiastes 4vs6. Better is a handful of rest than two handfuls of hard work.
Now think about that. A workaholic has no time or energy left to participate in
restful activities that are designed to refresh and rejuvenate us. So we have to be modest about work,
especially when we really love our assignments. The Bible encourages a balanced view,
work hard and enjoy the rewards. We may thoroughly enjoy our work,
but we must remember that work is even more enjoyable if we take time to relax and reflect
with pleasure on that work. Now since it's likely that many of you will receive new and enjoyable
privileges, which will increase your workload, this is good and timely advice from the scriptures,
is it not? Now may I invite you to turn to 2 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 6.
Because this verse conveys another positive dimension to the expression,
the gift of God, as you look to future assignments. It says,
for this reason I remind you to stir up like a fire, the gift of God that is in you through the
laying of my hands on you. Now if you to look at the study note, it says this,
the gift that Paul here mentions seems to involve a gift of Holy Spirit,
the imparting to Timothy of some special ability that helped him to fulfill his assignment.
Now of course, Gilead students do not have scholastic abilities conferred upon them by God,
do they? One of you even said in your introduction,
we're just ordinary battle lights, living extraordinary lives. Now while that may be true,
nevertheless, Gilead training has perhaps helped you to discover and nurture hidden talents
that you never knew you had. True? Your instructors may have noticed if you didn't.
All of us who enjoy service privileges like Timothy need to treasure our gift of God.
Service privileges are expressions of Jehovah's undeserved kindness, not a reward for months of study.
In fact, all of our energies, our abilities, our talents may be viewed as gifts from Jehovah
and they have the purpose of doing good towards other people. Now if that's our outlook and that's
our motive, we will thoroughly enjoy our assignments. You notice too in this verse that Paul reminded
Timothy to stir up like a fire, the gift of God that was in him. No doubt you are fired up
and you are ready to work hard in your assignments. But again, as explained in the study note,
stirring up like a fire implies continuous action as one scholar suggests to keep the fire burning
at full flame. So we're encouraged to put our heart and energy into our assignments. Be fired up
but don't burn out. The fire will continue to burn at full flame if we always remember to balance
work and rest. So yes, the days of our life quickly pass. It's a fact of life now, but only for now.
In the new world, we will enjoy work to the full. The joy of living will get better and better,
especially when we're in perfect health. We will enjoy the pleasure also of consuming
unpolluted food and drink. So enjoy life. Enjoy life with your family and friends. Enjoy all that
you have now. Enjoy your assignments. Put your heart into them. But be balanced. The simple formula
from Ecclesiastes will carry on for billions and billions of years, even forever. Eat and drink
and find enjoyment for all your hard work because it is the gift of God.
Well, thank you very much, Brother Gillies. We certainly view that talk as a gift or present.
We appreciate it. Now, Brother Edward Algin, who works in the writing department, will present
the next part entitled a problem and a solution. Well, you brothers and sisters from the
155th class of Gilead are not only about to graduate, but will soon be heading toward your
assignments, which we know you'll enjoy. But life, being what it is, you know, problems occasionally
arise. And one problem you might personally encounter somewhere down the road is difficulty
understanding and adjustment to an organizational or theocratic arrangement. It could be a change in
our preaching methods or in congregation operations or in branch procedures or something like that.
Now, normally, we appreciate these organizational refinements and harmony with Isaiah 67. And yet
our publications and even the Bible itself acknowledge that at some point any one of us might find
it hard to make that transition from the way we had been doing something to the way we're now
instructed to do it. Now, why would we find it difficult? Because it affects us personally,
it changes where we serve or what we do. Maybe that. Maybe not that. Maybe it's just that mentally,
we're finding it hard to grasp the sense behind the change. Well, we're loyal. We're going to
cooperate. But our brain keeps saying, why are we going in this direction? It seems to me we
should be going in that direction instead. Well, if we have been given new direction and mentally
we're strongly inclined otherwise, then we have a problem. But we also have a solution. And that's
it. Philippians chapter three. Can we go there? Now, here Paul discusses a problem that existed
back there in some congregations. Now, was it a big problem in Philippi apparently not?
But anticipating that it might be a problem for some individuals there, Paul addresses it right here
in Philippians chapter three, verse 15 and 16. He says, therefore, let those of us who are
mature be of this mental attitude. And if you are mentally inclined otherwise in any respect,
God will reveal the above attitude to you. At any rate to the extent with made progress,
let us go on walking orderly in this same course. What is Paul talking about? A major organizational
adjustment, the shift from the mosaic law to Christianity. And Paul for one understood it. He
was not mentally inclined otherwise. He left behind his attachment to the law. Any personal
advantages that it was bringing him, maybe along the lines of prominence prestige among the Jews,
left it all behind. That was Paul. But it took some Jewish Christians years to grow to the point
where they could leave that law behind and fully adopt all aspects of Christianity. Why did it
take them so long? Now, it's easy for us to say, well, they were stubborn. They had a bad attitude.
And some of them did. There were some, for example, who wanted to hold on to parts of the law
just to avoid persecution. So you had things like that going on. But think also of this.
Prior to Christianity, the mosaic law was Jehovah's arrangement for worship. So there must have been
some Jewish worshipers who before becoming Christian were very loyal to the mosaic law. And being
of the loyal sort, what do you think they did? Just obey the law? No, they'd have taken it further.
They'd have worked hard to cultivate a strong appreciation for the law, a deep love for the way
different features of the law reflected Jehovah's personality, his ways, his thinking,
perhaps some invested years bringing their appreciation up to that high level. And now that they had
the law suddenly goes out of effect, you can appreciate why it might have been hard for some
loyal ones to process this change mentally. Could something like that happen today? Yes, it could.
Maybe you're taught years ago. This is how we preach. And this is why. Or this is how the congregation
handles certain situation. And this is why. Or this is how we view certain branch procedures. And
this is why it is the very best way. Now being of the loyal sort, what did you do? You made it all your
own, not just the arrangement itself, but the reasoning behind the arrangement. If somebody came
along and challenged it, you loyally defended it. And maybe it took you years to bring your appreciation
up to that high level, but loyally you did. And now that you did, the arrangement changes. And maybe
even the reasoning behind the arrangement. Well, like some of those early Jewish Christians,
your very loyalty to a previous theocratic arrangement might make it hard to grasp immediately the
wisdom behind the new adjustment. Well, like we said, that's the problem. What's the solution? What can we
actually do about it? Three things. And all three are right there in the verses we just read.
First, be patient. What do Paul say there in verse 15? Therefore, let those of us who are mature,
be of this mental attitude. And if you're mentally inclined otherwise, God will reveal the above
attitude to you. So if you've made an earnest endeavor, a prayerful endeavor to get the sense
behind a change. And for now, you just can't set it aside, be patient because the day will come.
Maybe sooner, but maybe later, when the pieces finally fall into place for you and you grasp the
wisdom behind the adjustment. Now number two, walk orderly. What does that mean? The study note for
verse 16 explains that walking orderly has to do with moving forward unitedly as Christians. So
in the context of what we're talking about right now, walking orderly means support the new arrangement
without resisting, without complaining. Because what does complaining and resisting do? It's
walking disorderly. It's promoting disunity. So no, we walk orderly. We support the arrangement.
Now number three, stay busy in your theocratic routine because there in verse 16, Paul encourages
all of the Philippians to keep making progress. Now the same is true of all of us. Certainly,
there are many aspects of the truth that we do appreciate. We do understand and we're making
progress. Good. Put your mind and heart there, right? Rather than continuing to obsess over
something that you just can't understand for now, stay busy on your assignment and stay absorbed
in your weekly spiritual routine. It brings immediate contentment. Let's reveal.
If we ever have a problem, understanding an adjustment to a theocratic arrangement,
we also have a solution. Philippians 3, 16, be patient, walk orderly, and stay busy in our theocratic
routine. Now I would like to conclude by illustrating that last point, the value of staying busy
in our theocratic routine. Because it is the solution, not just what we're talking about right now,
it is the solution to several situations in life. Now the illustration is one that I heard several
years ago at a Gillian graduation program. One of your instructors told us about the old steamboats
that used coal for fuel, right? So upstairs you had the captain in the crew, downstairs you have
these men busy shoveling coal into the ship's boiler, right? Now imagine one of these workers puts
his shovel down and he approaches a coworker and says, hey, did I just detect the ship starting
to make a left turn? That does not seem right to me. It seems that at this point of the trip,
we should be moving straight forward, not changing direction. I wonder if the captain really knows
what he's doing. You know what? I'm going to go upstairs and have a word with the captain. Now at
this point, the speaker stopped describing the scene. He just leaned forward close to the microphone
and he simply said, shovel the coal. Oh, that's you and me, right? That's you and me. We are
shoveling the coal. We're busy doing the work. Jehovah assigned us to do. That's what we're
absorbed in. We let Jehovah take care of Isaiah 60, 17, the copper, the gold, the silver. We take
care of the coal by staying absorbed and busy in our theocratic routine. And then as Jehovah
navigates his organization, he'll also navigate us to the right attitude, to contentment,
and to that most wonderful adjustment of all from this system to life in the new world.
Well, we thank you very much, Brother Algin, for that three-part solution to a very realistic problem.
Now, one of your instructors, Brother Richard Shelton, will talk about the subject entitled,
Have you ever been fooled? Well, this day has finally arrived and you've made it.
Now for some of you, it is a return trip home. For others, you're off to a new home.
But no matter where you're going, one thing is for sure. And that is all of you, all of you are
about to begin a new chapter in your life. Now while that realization can spark feelings of
excitement, it can also spark a little anxiety as well. Questions may be swirling in your mind.
Who really am I now? Will I be able to fulfill all that would be expected of me?
Can I really do this? If you find any of these feelings bubbling up inside of you,
then remember this. You're not alone. Throughout time, faithful service of God
have had those same feelings. Let's take a closer look at one of them by turning to the Bible book
that bears his name, Jeremiah. Jeremiah, chapter 1, notice what he says beginning in verse 4.
He said, the word of Jehovah came to me saying, before I formed you in the womb, I knew you.
And before you were born, I sanctified you. I made you a prophet to the nations.
Now was Jeremiah flattered by the fact that Jehovah saw such potential in him.
Quite the opposite. Notice his response in verse 6. But I said,
Alas, O sovereign Lord Jehovah, I do not know how to speak for I am just a boy. In other words,
I don't think I'm qualified for what you're asking me to do. But notice what Jehovah does, verse 9.
Then Jehovah stretched out his hand and touched my mouth. And Jehovah said to me,
I have put my words in your mouth. Jehovah was reassuring, Jeremiah. Don't worry.
I've got this and you. Well, the nervous prophet accepted his assignment. And admittedly,
it was not always easy. At times, he met with fierce opposition. He was mobbed, imprisoned,
left to die in the mud at the bottom of an empty system. Clearly, he went through a lot.
And at one point, he even thought about quitting. Notice what he says in chapter 20,
chapter 20, the middle of verse 8. He said, for me, the word of Jehovah has been the cause of
insults and jeering all day long. So I said, I am not going to make mention of him. And I will
speak no more in his name. I like Jeremiah. We too may have our moments when we feel like giving up
is the answer. But let's read on the middle of verse 9. But in my heart, it, the message that he
had been proclaiming, it became like a burning fire shut up in my bones. And I was tired of holding
it in. I could no longer endure it. Now what happened here? Despite the hardships, clearly,
the boy had become the bold prophet of Jehovah. But my question to you is how did that happen?
Jeremiah himself tells us at verse 11. He says, Jehovah was with me like a fearsome warrior.
And with the fearsome warrior at his side, Jeremiah went from being unable to speak to being
unable to hold it in. He experienced a 180 degree change. And he knew exactly who was responsible
for it. He tells us in our theme scripture text for this talk, same chapter, chapter 20, verse 7.
He says, you, you have fooled me. Oh, Jehovah. And I, I was fooled. You used your strength against me
and you prevailed. Jehovah had fooled Jeremiah in a positive way. When Jeremiah reached what he
thought was his limit, Jehovah proved stronger than Jeremiah's weaknesses and empowered him to
continue. He was able to make the 180 because he first of all accepted the assignment. Secondly,
he trusted in Jehovah. And third, he allowed time for God's spirit to work on him.
And if you think Jeremiah was an isolated case, think again. Moses did the 180. He went from a man
slow of speech to becoming a mighty leader of an entire nation. Jonah did the 180. He went from
a man running away from his assignment in the opposite direction to becoming a bold preacher to the
Ninevites. Peter did the 180. He went from denying the Christ three times to becoming the rock
that Jesus always knew he could be. So what about you? Have you ever been fooled by Jehovah?
I'd like to read to you a few words that I recently received from a Gilead graduate. She said this,
when we heard the news that we were being assigned to a country that had its fair share of poverty,
instability, and sickness, I felt like saying to Jehovah, are you sure you want to send me there?
I don't like bugs. And I'm scared of being sick. When the date of our departure came,
I still remember all the tears I shed when saying goodbye to my home and friends.
While she accepted their assignment, time went by. Several years later, she and her husband received
a new assignment to serve in a different country. Notice what she says next.
If I thought leaving the United States was the hardest thing I would ever do, I was completely
fooled. Because the sadness I felt when I had to leave those new friends was indescribable.
I had never cried so much in my life. She goes on to sum up her experience this way. She said,
Jehovah taught me a lesson in the most loving way. Before Gilead, I was putting myself in a box,
the what I can do box. But I wasn't thinking that the person who knows best where I fit is Jehovah.
Is as if he said, you're not only going to adapt to your new assignment, you're going to love it so
much you will never want to leave. And that's exactly what happened. I came to truly love the people
in our assignment. And I can honestly say that these past few years have been some of my happiest.
Now I'm not so afraid of change as before. I just trust in Jehovah, trusting in the process.
Amazing, isn't it? She too made the 180. She had been fooled by Jehovah just like Jeremiah.
And she came out stronger and happier as a result. Why did that happen?
Because when we are fooled by Jehovah, three significant things happen. First, we draw closer to him.
Secondly, we discover new joys that perhaps we never saw coming. And third, we open the door
to receiving additional training from Jehovah. In conclusion, just love the people.
Then they will love you. Then you will love your assignment. Be willing to walk through the doors
wherever they take you. With the fearsome warrior by your side, you cannot fail. Always welcome
the chance to be fooled by Jehovah. Because it means that you're about to experience something
pretty magnificent. And guess what? It has been tailor-made just for you.
But we thank you, too, Brother Chilton. We really appreciated how you highlighted aspects about
Jeremiah. A very real and human example for us. And now we have one of your instructors,
another one, Brother Trent Lippold, who will talk on the interesting subject and titled
Oil to Machinery. He wrote about one quarter of the Christian Greek scriptures.
That's almost as much as the Apostle Paul. His name is only mentioned three times.
And there are scarcely four words that are used to describe him.
The Physician Luke is one of the most familiar names of whom we know almost nothing about.
In a world of people trying to look important, Luke shows us what is important.
Let's see what we can learn from the Physician Luke. The first mention of him, the first description
of Luke is found in the book of Colossians chapter 3, verse 14. And the Apostle Paul describes
him there as the beloved Physician. Physician, we focused on that when we considered the gospel of
Luke, Luke uses medical terms as he writes. But Luke was more than just a physician by occupation.
Luke was a physician in spirit. He had the heart of a physician, the heart of a healer.
Let's look at an example. Turn with me please to the book of Luke chapter 4. Luke 4 verses 38 and 39.
38 says after leaving the synagogue, he, that's Jesus, entered into Simon's home.
Now Simon's mother-in-law was suffering from a high fever and they asked him to help her.
So he stood over her and rebuked the fever and it left her, instantly she got up and began
ministering to them. There we have a mention in verse 38, Luke noted that she had a high fever.
But look a little closer. What made an impression on Luke? Was it just the high fever?
The verse says, Simon's mother-in-law was suffering with a high fever. Matthew didn't say that,
Mark didn't say that. Luke noticed. Look at another example, Luke 22, verse 44, Luke 22, 44. The
count is in the Garden of Gethsemane and Jesus was there praying. But notice what Luke wrote,
what caught his attention, verse 44. But he was in such agony that he kept praying more
earnestly and his sweat became as drops of blood falling to the ground. The physician Luke noticed
the condition that his sweat became as drops of blood. But look again, it says that he was in such
agony that his sweat became as drops of blood. Jesus' condition, his agony is what caught Luke's
attention, not just the physical condition, the medical condition. You see, Luke records Jesus as
someone who saw men as they were. He saw men without distinction. He saw men and he loved them all.
Luke shows Jesus as someone whose heart goes out to everyone for whom life is an unequal struggle.
That made an impression on Luke. Think of Luke's gospel, the things that are uniquely recorded in Luke.
It's only Luke who tells us about the aged Elizabeth's in Zechariah. Luke tells us about Anna
in Simeon. Luke tells us about the widow of name. The woman bent over for 18 years. The
woman who anointed the feet of Jesus with her tears, the Samaritan leper, the rich tax collector's
achaus, the condemned thief who hung beside Jesus. Those Jesus added to towards these people
appealed to Luke. And part of me, Luke shared Jesus' view. For Luke too, men of all sorts are in
the embrace of God's mercy. And this attitude of heart and mind made Luke be loved, the beloved
physician. And note out that spirit reduced the friction amongst those who were traveling
with Paul in preaching in the first century. Now, the second description of Luke is found in
Philemon, verse 24. And there, Luke is described as a fellow worker.
Open with me the book of Acts, Acts chapter 16. And we'll read beginning in verse 8.
Acts chapter 16 and verse 8. It says, so they, this is Paul, Timothy, Silas and his
traveling companions, they passed by Mizia and came down to Troas. And that's where Paul had the
vision. And he was told to step over into Macedonia. And look at verse 10. As soon as he, that's Paul
had seen the vision, we tried to go into Macedonia. Verse 11 says, so we put out to see from Troas.
Here's our introduction to the book of Luke. Luke never praises himself. He never writes about
himself. We only trace Luke's travels with Paul by the change of a pronoun, from they to we.
Now, this was in the second missionary tour that Paul, Luke joined, Paul here at Troas and he
traveled on to Philippi with him. And look at what make Luke a fellow worker. Look at what we
can learn from him. This is in verse 13. When they arrived in Philippi, verse 13 says, on the Sabbath
day, we went outside the gate beside a river where we thought there was a place of prayer. And we sat
down and began speaking to the woman, women who had assembled. And this now is the account of Lydia,
where Lydia embraces the truth, the kingdom message. But did you notice? It said, we went outside.
Luke went with them. It said, we thought there was a place of prayer. Luke was involved in the
thinking process, in the discussion, in the decision about where to go. And Luke was involved in
speaking to them. Luke was a participant, not simply along for the ride, not a fellow traveler,
not just a chronicler. Luke was a fellow worker. And there's a beautiful lesson for us and for you.
Be a participant. Be an example. Get involved in the assignments you are given. Now, it may be that
Luke stayed in Philippi from 50 to 56. We don't know, but perhaps he did, because he joined Paul,
again, in 56 CE on the third missionary to a from Philippi. What did he do in Philippi? We don't
really know. Typically, it's quiet about Luke. But we can assume he must have just been a busy
fellow worker there in Philippi. No sparks flying, just a busy fellow worker. He joined Paul again
from 56 from Philippi. He traveled with him to Jerusalem. He was in Jerusalem for the trouble
in the temple. He traveled with in Cessaria where Paul was a prisoner and continued on with Paul
to Rome where Paul was a prisoner. Luke, however, was not a prisoner, but he accompanied Paul.
How comforting that must have been for Paul to have his fellow worker with him.
When you think about Paul, his countless beatings, the scourging, the stoning, the shipwrecks,
they must have all taken a toll on him physically, not to mention the thorn and the flesh he had to
deal with. One of his traveling companions was Timothy with frequent cases of sickness,
how relieved they must have been to have Luke the physician with them. So Luke is an example of
long continued devotion to the kingdom work and of unshaken constancy to Paul and his associates.
And in fact, this warm feeling of a fellow worker, Luke being a fellow worker is perhaps best
summed up in the final mention of Luke. And that's in 2 Timothy 4 verse 11. Amongst Paul's final
words, he says, Luke alone is with me. Of all his fellow workers, perhaps there were none
dearer or few dearer than Luke. You see, Luke's writing contained the least possible mention of
himself, yet we do not doubt that he was eminently useful to Paul and to all those around him,
to be sure he enabled Paul to do much more than would have otherwise been possible for him.
He kept himself out of sight. In his gospel, it is Christ that shines. In the book of Acts,
it's the kingdom preaching work that shines. And I wonder if the silence in the scriptures
in direct reference to Luke's intentional. It certainly teaches us something.
Few other so prominent servants have so little mention and therein lies the lesson from the life
of Luke. Be an example of a servant who with lowliness of mind finds your service in serving
others. There was already one Paul. Luke stays in the background. With the spirit of a true servant,
he did not need the light of publicity to stimulate him. He was not the machine. He was the oil.
Finally, if the only three words used to describe you are beloved fellow worker,
your training here at Gilead will have been a success. And you, like Luke, will be oiled to
machinery. Well, we thank you very, very much for the lip-old. We appreciate it. How you
highlighted the example of Luke and you applied that interesting theme to his example, oil to machinery.
Such thought-provoking and encouraging talks. We hope you enjoyed part one.
Be on the lookout for parts two and three which will be available on jw.org later this month.
Our program would not be complete without visiting our brothers and sisters in another beautiful
country. This month, we visit Haiti, which means land of the mountains. Haiti is a tropical
island located in the Caribbean Sea and has beautiful white sand beaches, rivers, waterfalls,
and, yes, majestic mountains. Haiti's culture and language are unique in character. Many speak
French, but the mother tongue of most people is Haitian Creole, an expressive language that combines
French words with West African grammar. The population reflects a colorful blend of African and
European traits and cultures. Haitians love to dance, sing, laugh, and, of course, they enjoy
tasty foods such as TomTom. TomTom is breadfruit, mashed very fine, and often eaten with an
okra sauce. Haiti has a rich theocratic history. Records don't show exactly when the good news first
reached Haiti, but as early as February 1887, Zion's watchtower listed Haiti among the places where
people sent in letters of interest about the good news. The first watchtower missionaries arrived in
Haiti in 1945. One of them was Roland Frdette, who later became the first branch overseer.
Hardworking and adventurous missionary sisters such as Gloria Hill, Naomi Adams, Helen Domingo,
and Francis Bailey made valuable contributions to the preaching activity in the 1950s.
The Haitian people show a keen interest in the word of God. Today there are over 17,000 active
publishers. These zealous and happy publishers preach in Haitian Creole, American Sign Language,
or Spanish. And thanks to the availability of braille publications in Haitian Creole, those who
are blind are also learning the truth. This mountainous country does not intimidate our loyal
preachers of the good news. During the summer season, brothers and sisters of all ages head into
seldom-worked territories. And although Haiti has faced economic challenges and suffered recent
natural disasters, our brothers and sisters are positive and focus their attention on encouraging
others to look to the future without fear. The city of Kaupai, Sien is in the northern part of the
island, and that is where you'll find the 113 publishers of the Morn Rouge congregation.
They would like to send you their greetings. They want you all to know that they love you very much.
And we say in Haitian Creole, Nuremangutu, which means we love you too.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.